Good should be running.
OK.
So yeah, thanks for putting this together.
I think we we're coming closer.
Details are becoming more and more
visible.
I had a bit of trouble checking what's up
heading belongs to which.
High-level headings,
but maybe let's go from top to bottom.
So when we refer to option one,
it's this column, right? Evaluo.
Yes.
But option two is this and option three
is this,
which is not really deep and further down
in the file.
So we mainly discuss these two things in
this page. That's.
Yes,
the third one was proposed by Yosef some
Yes.
time ago. It's very relatively, let's say,
similar to the outbox one. Slightly,
let's say, easier to implement, but.
Has some like drawbacks around
synchronous integration flow.
But that being said, anyway,
we've been deciding to go with option one.
Yeah.
Over the previous discussions,
so just wanted to show you,
Correct.
let's say the solution. Matthias,
does it make sense for me to take over
the screen and?
Of course.
Yeah.
Let me know once you can see my screen.
Yeah.
So so for for the purpose of this we have
let's say the the end user,
Yeah.
new dispro front end, the service,
the database in this external dependency
TMS bridge.
Again it's relatively restructed in a way
that.
Potentially could be implemented in
another way with other,
let's say external dependencies if we
have any in future and we won't see your
transactional behavior. But like how?
How does it?
Start from the end user like everything
is hidden beneath potentially apart from
the the fact that potentially if there
any transient errors etcetera or any data
quality errors that are propagated,
let's say we.
Exhaust any retries for some reason or we
are not able to.
Let's say progress because of some data
quality concern, some misconfiguration,
et cetera.
Potentially this may require for the user
to again try.
Um, retry that operation.
But how does it look like? For example,
we'll have any modification requests that
comes from new dispro front end as part
of user and user, let's say activity.
And in in that regard, there would be,
let's say,
retryable logic here to retry on
recoverable errors that that's how we are
protecting, let's say,
against some some temporary
unavailability that's potentially not
visible to the end user.
This should be configurable with some
exponential backup,
but relatively limited in total duration
so that the user doesn't need to,
let's say, wait for minutes,
for example to for that operation to
complete. Anyway, we have the.
Recovery mechanism that the use the end
user can trigger and from that
perspective on we should be also trying
to get some existing data like try to get
that relevant record or many records like
this operation could be retried in a loop
as well.
And then um.
Like if there is a create operation with
an existing record or we we can just
switch the operation to to update rather
than actually inserting any data and we
just supply these changes.
Basically this is called absurd.
If that's a delete and the record is
missing,
obviously we skip doing any changes.
Other than that, if there's no,
let's say conflict, for example,
the record is is existing and we intend
to delete it or the record is not present
and we intend to create it.
Or the record is present and we intend to
update it. We just do that.
I have a separate table on that regard to
explain further this item potency logic.
Yes, Yosif.
Just question about if if I have any
questions like do do you prefer to to
leave them for when you finish or just
straight ahead ask?
Yeah,
keep in mind that I also created some
decision table over here about this
important processing, for example,
based on what kind of operation we
perform and what's the current state of
the particular record is.
If you have a related questions,
we can go to that table.
No, it's about this retry.
So are you talking about some
Later on.
OK.
automatically retry here like the system
automatically retries?
Yes.
Yes, but very short.
I mean for example first retry could be
100 millisecond and then second one maybe
in one second and I don't know,
maybe we don't retry further because that
would like impact user behaviour.
Mhm.
I mean the user would be blocked.
For a lot of time and blocking the front
end is usually a bad idea unless we have
No.
some screen with some,
let's say with the loading screen et
cetera.
That appears and potentially prepares the
end user to wait for some potentially
long running cooperation.
If that's very short,
potentially the screen is not doesn't not
even appear. If it's longer,
maybe we can show that.
Discussion, but in my opinion,
let's try to keep that retry duration
short, several seconds at most.
Mm-hmm.
So in short we implement some some some
retry logic like in memory retry logic on
the server side and we make sure that the
the operation that you that the user is
trying to perform is indepotent.
Like in order to be retried.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
That answers my question.
I I asked you if there's no Outlook table
because the document headings were a bit
off. This means we don't have a table.
Obviously, as Joseph said,
it's in memory and within the same HTTP
request.
OK,
meaning also if it is transient but still
not resolved, it's lost.
The state is lost.
We cannot pick up from there because we
don't have a record that's a compromise,
Yes.
let's say like that.
He.
Yes.
Yes, yes.
So if that previous operation was.
OK.
Um, a rather a success.
For that, which means like retries,
like maximum amount of retries was not
And.
reached and we didn't receive any
unrecoverable error.
Then we go to the database,
update that local data.
Eventually we may need to be prepared
that this data is also present.
For example, we didn't just,
we just didn't manage to return back a
result to the front end and but this
operation was actually successfully
stored.
Then we should also be able to, let's say,
handle data that's potentially not that's
already available.
In the database again similar behavior
for idempotent processing.
And then we commit the transaction and
return the response on the incoming HTTP
request from the front end.
And then for the end user it's either
handle a success or some print the error
that occurred with some instructions on
what to do.
Like if we know that's or in the
recoverable error for example,
we can advise the user to try a bit later.
If it's let's say not recoverable,
we might just inform the user hey that
that was not recoverable error, but.
And but you should let's change check
with support on let's say what's wrong
with the data.
Yes.
Yes,
so about the translator like how this
will work for example because.
Let's say that we we change the state in
new dispo like as a part of a
transactional flow.
There are pretty much two steps.
First we you know first we sorry we we do
the new dispo.
The the TMS sorry operation and then the
the new dispo operation.
So let's say the TMS operation succeeded.
The new dispo failed.
We retried a couple of times the new
dispo operation, but it failed.
Then then OK, so then when the user tries,
we need to make sure that also the new
the the TMS call is also in them so he
can retry safely, right?
Yes, exactly. So in in in this case,
we also need to make sure that the new
OK.
dispo DB operations are also idempotent.
Uh.
In theory,
we're introducing everything with a
single transaction,
but it might happen that let's say that
transaction was applied,
but the response response was just not
returned back to the user on time.
Maybe that instance died before.
Mm.
This it received the response from the
database that the transaction commit was
successful.
So we pretty much we are going,
we will have to notify the user that
there are some some some data consistency
that occurred that the state is now
unsynchronized and he needs and the user
needs to retry later.
Yes, exactly. So in the if that happens,
we can also provide some kind of a status
that we didn't manage to, let's say,
store some some changes consistently and
then the user will need to retry that
operation.
Mhm.
So sorry if I have my hand up already.
What we don't have is any state that
tells us there is a miss.
Sync state between the systems because
it's all in memory.
We we know the state on TMS side is
different than on a disposal side,
but we cannot recover that state after
the request.
It's lost,
so with someone else close to the same
record.
He doesn't see that there's currently a
discrepancy, right?
Because we cannot read that from any
state because we don't persist it.
Yes,
this is the limitation of the overall
No.
approach like option one.
Yeah, is that also? I mean,
why did you choose to go without a table?
Is the overhead of adding the table for
you making it already very big the
In my opinion.
Yeah.
complexity?
In my opinion,
this would increase the complexity and
Hmm.
last time we discussed we don't want to
go with that like local intermediate
changes that we somehow report,
let's say visually to the end user that
Mm.
these are half baked.
Um.
No.
Just to recap.
Otherwise, otherwise we will need to,
let's say,
change the flow in that case and we will
first need to do a local change.
Then we synchronize attempt to
synchronize the change remotely.
If everything is fine,
we just update the status on that.
Mhm.
Local data.
Otherwise we we rather let's say not
update it and it stays indefinitely until
the end user retries that.
But then what happens is like because
there's a local.
Change already introduced then
potentially this uh local change would
need to somehow either to be like retried.
There must be some kind of a UI option to
retry that non sync change from end user.
And this is where it get complex in my
opinion.
Yeah.
It's almost like half of the work for the
outbox pattern,
Mm.
while with with this approach we're
rather reducing the effort to in my
opinion to let's say 20% of the.
Outbox pattern work.
Yeah,
and still we don't build anything that
cannot be extended into full outbox.
I think that's maybe also the case.
Need to check in detail.
Yes,
we don't build any outbox related pattern
No.
in this case and that's fine.
I mean the outbox pattern itself,
it's the hardest one to achieve.
It's not the integration with DMS
Mm.
etcetera, it's more about.
Running successfully like concurrently
the outbox table pattern.
OK.
Yeah, no.
What I meant is if we build this solution
MVP style and want to extend it to full
outbox later,
we don't build anything unnecessary
because the flows would just.
Extend the memory solution will be
replaced by the table,
so nothing to throw away really.
Later on,
I mean a bit of waste is always there I
guess.
I'm just saying I think this this needs
again heavy feedback with the business.
So so.
So this kind of thing I called it already
observable local non sync,
non sync changes.
Sorry I have a typo and it's.
Observable synced O this kind of change
like this kind of feature here I would
say is supported in all options.
Someone did a modification probably.
Anyway.
So this this feature is supported in all
options like we can always insert somehow
big changes that so that the user is
aware hey I have a pending change on that
and it it's kind of supported by all
options.
But only in that moment, of course.
This capabilities is more or less
sortable now to what approach we select.
Yeah, yes, Yosef.
Oh,
I was just want to to provide some input
over like the the what we discussed with
the outbox.
I'm not sure if like you if I and
Matthias was on the same topic or maybe
you were.
I think what Matthias was suggesting was
to just to like in case of these failures,
just to walk some data either in outbox
table or somewhere else and show it to
the user.
But I just wanted to to tell that this
this this has complications on its own.
Like for example these issues will most
likely arise when there is some some some
some long long long transient outage and
what would happen is that we'll be
generating a lot of errors in this for
example 10 or 5.
For example 10 or 515 minutes.
So for example when the user walks in
some other user and wants to see errors,
he'll be seeing a lot of errors
potentially.
Also like there are some other
complexities such as if we have an outbox
table, usually the case.
The case of failure will be our database,
right?
Because we first implemented the TMS
logic and then the new dispo logic in the
stable will be new dispo database.
So we won't be able to update the outbox
Mhm.
state,
meaning that we have to in the beginning
insert some outbox record which will be
in some indefinite state such as started,
we don't know.
It might succeed, it might fail.
Then what I just meant is that there are
totally implications in introducing such
layer.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. I agree with that.
Like potentially if we want to have these
Anyway.
changes observable in theory,
we can also build a view around outbox
table,
but it's not really intended for end user.
Yeah,
we can always always have a dedicated
view like this is your.
Outbox similar to let's say Outlook's
outbox where you see a messages that are
still pending to be, let's say synced,
haven't been sent successfully,
but are retried on behalf of the
application.
Mm.
But still, in my opinion,
this is additional layer of complexity
Yeah.
and it usually implies outbox and this
feature about,
let's say these changes being observable,
but let's say not synchronized.
This is related more to.
Towards let's say introducing the data,
like having a three-step operation here,
like inserting locally a business record
that's very,
very similar to the ones that have been
successfully synced with with TMS.
But just with the difference with let's
say having some status and then have some
kind of visual representation to end user
that these changes haven't been synced
successfully.
For some reason,
but otherwise it's treated more or less
in similar manner to the existing,
let's say records,
existing data like like etcetera being
arranged,
but maybe there is a different color like
somewhat grayed out.
So someone observes.
This is like how big changed change. Yep,
yes.
Just a quick question,
like wouldn't be fine optimization to in
case of these failures. For example, yeah,
we do the TMS operation,
we try the new dispo, it fails.
So we quickly try to resolve some
transient errors by by some quick retries
and.
This felt like try to pretty much um.
To do the saga for the TMS,
like to to to undo our operation on the
TMS, you might, yeah.
Yosef, Yosef,
let's not overcomplicate that. I mean,
again, I'm hearing saga.
Do you know where saga is used? I mean.
No, no, no saga. Sorry, no, no.
I'm not talking like full,
full complicated saga.
Like I'm talking about very,
very straightforward. For example,
we inserted, yeah,
Like an undo.
we inserted the transport order on TMS.
We then want to do on new this point we
just try to to delete it and if it
Like.
succeeds we say the whole we say to the
user the whole operation failed.
Please retry later and if it doesn't
succeed for some edge case like we we did
the creation of the transport order on
the TMS but somehow we failed to to.
Don't do it.
We then we go into this flow which is uh
hey,
you have like some some unsynchronized
date is happening like.
Yes, yes, I agree. In theory that's fine.
But again, you we we usually, let's say,
Mm.
have the database much more reliable
compared to any application layer that's
proxying color tables such as the TMS
bridge.
So for example,
someone could release a new version of
TMS bridge and let's say make it
unavailable, etc.
But we actually rely much more on the
database being available and from that
priority perspective, I mean the local.
New dispo DB and from that perspective on
we can still have a rollback operation,
but this rollback operation is expensive.
This needs to also be tested and it could
also fail.
So we also need to recognize that there
would be additional cases around rollback
being failing.
Mm.
But we don't need the rollback for the
new disk site because.
It put a TMS side.
Because the because we execute for the
TMS operation and and even if we we even
if for example we are unable to undo it,
we didn't do more harm that we already
did that that's what I'm meaning we just
we just try to.
We just try to fix ourselves,
like in some naive way. And if we succeed,
we succeed. If we don't,
we we are as much wrong.
We did as much wrong as we already did.
I mean, we.
Yeah, yeah, I know. But this is kind of a,
let's say, enhancement. Let's, let's,
Exactly.
That's why I said optimization exactly.
let's prioritize it later.
Let's try to introduce first the main
scenario,
because we cannot like the main scenario
here is.
There would be manual user driven like
even with that optimization we cannot
avoid not having it and then we decide if
we if we can.
Let's introduce at a later point like
this kind of optimization. We do it,
but first let's focus on the.
Most, let's say, important case.
Um.
I mean, it's great in the MVP sense.
What is left is discussing with business
what is the minimal acceptable target
state at some time in the future, but I.
I really like going little steps because
I think we all miss experience of how TMS
behaves in the field in a go live
situation with a few people using it.
We we don't have this experience.
So it's a bit difficult to think any
further than this very limited option one
here. I I I think it's great,
but it needs business communication.
That's one aspect I wanted to say and why
I had my hand up. The second one is,
are we aware if this really covers the
nested looping we have when, for example,
adding a lot? You're right,
we have some more going on here than just
one simple CMS interaction.
I can.
Sometimes we create a transport order,
we add a leg, we add several legs,
but it's all considered one business
interaction in that sense that must.
Are you are you talking about the the
great transport order from lot operation?
Thank you.
Mhm, yes.
Is this on back end the loop or on the
TMS database?
Well, that's.
Yes, it will. It will be, it could be,
it could we could do and do because on
the TMS we can we can do transactions.
So for example, yeah,
we try to create a log from transport
order,
we succeed and then we fail to update the
state to new dispo then we can.
Like yeah,
I tried the the transaction and do in a
transaction that that just covers covers
these these multiple steps.
I suggested this again as enhancement and
optimization and it's something that we
In in the TMS.
will be we will be able to easily
implement.
That's why that's why I suggested it.
I'm fine to to to leave it for later.
Mhm.
But to me really this brings value
because because like it will,
it will actually very often,
very often recover us from this, this.
Synchronization when this happens,
to be honest.
So when you say this,
you mean the option one minimum or what
Um.
do you mean with this?
No, no. Option one,
it's option one like it's confirmed.
We are talking about option one.
What I'm referring to is this undo
Mm-hmm. Uh, OK.
operation that we try to do to me the way
I see it it that's I mean given the.
Yeah.
But again, Yosef,
let's put it in the backlog. I mean,
we already agreed on that.
Let's put it in the backlog.
If time we can introduce that change.
Hey, it's just Matthias.
Matthias asked about this.
That's why I'm answering.
Hmm.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. But again,
it's it's something that needs to be like
carefully tested as well,
because if we're also wrong like.
How frequent this kind of,
let's say rollback would happen.
This would be very infrequent.
So in that regard,
testing it would be also very,
very complicated.
Mm.
Huh.
Exactly.
So we also need some automated testing
No.
similar to cloud for look in mapping and
to validate all these scenarios.
Mhm.
Absolutely.
But The thing is.
Yeah, it's a very good big overlap.
But The thing is,
we like the more cases we start
accumulating, the more complex it gets.
And at the end of the day,
we also need to test against real data
Yeah.
because we don't know what kind of codes
will be throwing,
TMS would be actually throwing.
We first need to capture this and then
put it as part of tests.
Yeah.
I'm here.
I also think it's an issue that we don't
own the full stack.
We should probably really start having
our own TMS instance.
It's not great to be always dependent on
them.
Yes,
definitely we will need some some EMS
database instance.
I mean, you can. I I tried it.
There's a script in the database.
You can run it in Postgres instead of
Alloy.
Still it has a lot of dependencies
regarding any data dependencies and so on.
To get it into a state where it really
makes sense and is.
Into, yeah,
has integrity from a data logic point of
view.
It's really hard to get it up and running,
but it would be really necessary
specifically in an automated test case
scenario where you want to spin these
things up.
Automatically as well from a clean state,
then make it dirty with tests,
throw it away and continue.
Good, but we are over time.
Then I think let's take away the decision
that we go with option one. For me,
it's even smaller option one than I had
considered, but fine,
we can go into discussions with the
client with this and that's also required
to get this go.
Um, still, yeah.
There's some still something that I
wanted to discuss.
Mhm.
Like this classification of errors.
And overall behavior,
like how do we treat that?
And obviously we have some outcomes like
HTP 200 or 201.
This is obviously something that has been
successful, let's say when we have an IO.
Related integration,
but these are just examples of course
like recoverables means that there might
be a disconnect on the TCP socket.
Usually 500 error codes they fall under
this category.
But sometimes.
Sometimes they do not like 500 to one not
implemented, so obviously not recoverable.
And then we have some 400 errors that
potentially might fall under recoverable.
Like too many requests or request time
out.
And.
For unrecoverable, we also have,
let's say, usually 400 codes.
But sometimes 501 for example isn't a
good example of of a cause that
potentially should be candled as
unrecoverable.
And then for for recoverable we just give
a like some retry in memory and so for
unrecoverable.
We just obviously returned an error.
There is nothing we can do about it.
Potentially someone may need to act on on
some data on some applications to let's
Mhm.
say redeploy a fix and only then this
this could be fixed later for.
Yeah.
But this has a direct implication on what
we lock,
all right to make the information
available to service desk people.
And this part of identical time
processing.
So I've listed all these cases like.
For different operations like create,
update and delete and what should we do
if let's say in different scenarios where
the record either exists or doesn't exist?
And the question is,
do we have any means of versioning,
let's say comparing against timestamp.
So we also,
let's say involve that concurrency
concept because if different users are
also trying to perform concurrent
operations.
On the same data set,
it's complicated enough,
but when we also have multiple
applications where we need to sync that
data across,
it's getting even more complex because
user A might overwrite user B's.
Change in system A,
but then if there is no concurrency
control,
then obviously that operation could be
interleaved and then user A overrides
user B, let's say changes locally.
And then we again end up with
inconsistent state,
even though with like from application
perspective everything seemed to be
working fine.
Mhm.
Yeah, this is this is a huge.
And.
Come discussion I have of us with TMS.
If we have some like timestamps,
potentially we can check these timestamps.
Of course if we're sure that these these
are always automatically incremented.
So if these are not automatically
incremented in all cases,
Mm.
then potentially might they might get
somewhat unreliable.
No.
But still it's some sort of a protection
and yeah,
OK.
we need to confirm if let's say record
exists or doesn't exist.
I've created some guidelines on the
implementation.
What should we do about this type of
conflicts?
Yeah,
so I think this justifies even more going
with option one,
accepting the compromise there and
instead.
Holistically cover all these topics with
idempotency,
which will be complex by its own.
This is so.
OK.
This is so also true for the option one.
I mean this is this is the potency
challenges.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
This is making option one even complex.
But to be honest, to be honest,
I don't think that they're that much
valid.
I mean for the big case because once
again we do the TMS operation first and
like this either succeeds or it failed.
So actually the.
The indempotency like is mainly valid for
the for the new dispo.
Now it depends how we implement that.
Obviously when the user retries he wants
to retry the TMS operation as well.
But but still yeah,
I think the good thing is that we have
some some time stamps there which we
could be checking and we also don't.
We have update operations in the sense of
some fields being updated as part of
these falls.
Most of them are create or delete,
so I think that's actually alleviates a
bit the issue.
Yeah, usually updates are the most,
let's say,
Mm.
Hmm.
prone to this kind of race condition,
but still there is some sequence around
Um.
recreating a record that has been just
deleted by another user.
Yeah,
or creating duplicates with too many
inserts.
So I think we need a dedicated list of
item potency check for all touch points
that we have,
which Ivailo prepared Ivailo bit of.
We need to look at them individually and
together with Joachim.
OK.
Good. So next steps.
It's mostly gonna be back end
implementation work.
It's more concept, more alignment work.
If we think about tests,
we would need testing DVIs.
I'm just thinking about how to move on
with actual work that is refined and can
go into the backlog of our Sprint.
How do we move on here?
Yosef also looking looking at you.
Yeah,
so I think we just need to create some
some technical items.
I think this is fairly simple approach.
It should not be something very hard.
We need to introduce this retry logic on
transient issues.
We need to do some work over this then
potency probably decide.
About this enhancement that I mentioned
in terms of the component testing and the
No.
automated testing,
I think that we need to really think
about this like obviously it's good to
have it,
but we don't have a component test
framework in place.
And building such framework for this use
case,
I mean I'm not sure it could end up
taking more effort than the
implementation itself and maybe if
there's a way to to somehow dev test it
or simulate it in some in some.
Manual fashion.
I think it might be better.
If a manual is needed,
then obviously there must be a way for us
to control,
let's say the database state on the TMS
side.
Or like do it with some remote debugging
where we, let's say,
kill the instance while it's in progress.
I think we can simulate this fairly easy
to be honest.
Yeah.
Like we just configure configure some for
example wrong configuration for our TMS
for our new dispo database,
making sure that we we can connect to the
TMS but some wrong configuration from the
new.
Database and just simulating the new
dispo database not available and and
Mm.
This is not exhausting.
check them.
No, I know.
Let's say the all the different types of
errors that potentially new this like
I know, yeah.
TTMS control.
So we are looking at extensively testing
what kind of.
Things can go wrong over TMS and then
what kind of status is?
Mm.
What kind of errors could be returned?
Wouldn't we be good off mocking bridge?
But again, the mocking of the bridge.
And literally we don't have database
activities here with you as we have API
and HTTP traffic with the bridge from the
back end. That's all we have.
We could as well mock it including
timeouts.
But it's not the bridge that will be
failing. I mean, this is the first step,
I
Yeah.
like we continue only when it succeeds.
Of course,
but the back end doesn't know about
databases of TMS,
it just knows the bridge,
so it is its main interface.
We have all of these scenarios about that
input and processing.
So how do we check like these are
implemented appropriately if we cannot
manipulate the data and like leave TMS
with some intermediate changes?
Like out of sync with new disco.
For that it's of course a database topic,
but you were I was just referring to your
HTTP arrows and types which could maybe
some of them be mocked.
Not all of them, of course.
Yeah,
but the mocking should be should be on
So we.
the side of the new dispo database,
not on the side of the TMS bridge.
That's what I was trying to say.
Mhm.
Yeah,
so it's definitely worth having another.
Round with QA.
And back end to come up with a proper
test concept and also define what is
feasible at all in this time range.
As always, it's it's a compromise,
I guess.
OK.
Because I think that we tend to mix up a
bit to be honest,
the topics about about the the TMS and
the bridge and then the new dispo
database really because like indempetency
is one thing we should have it for both.
But in terms of failure scenarios,
the failure scenarios is entirely on the
new dispo database.
Just because if there's a failure on the
TMS side and the bridge side,
we simply don't continue.
Um.
OK, so Yosef, would you be able to?
Go into PEIs already or do we need one
more revision of the concept paper?
Also ditching option two and three and so
on,
making it really focus on option one and
in.
Corporate what we've discussed just now.
To me the part,
the to me the part that is unclear like
for me is about this around the testing
and around the what we just discussed
like simulating these failures like if I
will just once again because maybe.
Maybe it's me not understanding something,
but we should not be really.
Testing failures against the TMS breach
and the TMS databases.
We should be testing all these scenarios
that you mentioned that we need to test
the different kind of errors.
This should be really again the new dispo
database.
Not really. I mean,
we have a demo them processing, right?
Let's say we already have that data,
et cetera.
How do we test against these kind of
changes?
I mean that that's what I said in that
potency is, yeah,
it's it's it's one thing, I mean.
Then we also have recoverable errors.
Like if we if you're able to, let's say,
simulate a variety of these somehow,
this this would be great.
Otherwise you're just blindly
implementing something.
Yeah, I mean these are recoverable errors.
This will be again in the case that new
dispro failed, right?
New dispro database failed for some
reason.
No, it could be also TMS breach.
Like again as as I said,
the probability that there would be a
favor on TMS side would be in my opinion
bigger than the one for the internal
Neogis for database.
That's for sure, that's for sure,
but but if for example the TMS fails,
what exactly we need to test when in this
case we we simply don't continue and
return the error to the user?
I mean, this is our straightforward for.
Still, we don't know like what happened.
Just because it failed doesn't mean it
didn't introduce any data inside the
database, right?
What? What do you mean? Why?
Why we're not sure? Like for example,
like we make the request to to TMS,
it fails.
We we never execute anything further on
our new dispo site,
we just return the error to the user.
This is, uh,
this is our prerequisite to to continue
Yeah, I can.
I can give you a number of examples,
further the TMS.
but in theory we should be also trying to,
let's say,
classify the errors so we can give it a
retry.
If we say we propagate immediately the
the error, that's another thing.
Maybe we can make such a decision.
We don't attempt any retries in memory.
For several seconds,
we don't classify any errors,
we just return back a result to the user
and we decide we delegate to the user to
to let's say do a retry attempt.
That's also.
That's what we currently do.
OK, so.
If TMS fails, if TMS, if TMS operation,
if the TMS operation failed,
we just return the the response from the
operation to the user. We didn't.
We never tried to introduce any state to
new dispo really that the.
Yeah, but but let's say,
and let me give you some examples that
Problematic.
potentially might, let's say, be harmful.
I'm not sure whether these are present at
the minute or not,
but let's say you're introducing several
changes on TMS side like you invoke
several mutations over Graph QL.
You know one, let's say,
business operation.
They are always transactional,
always 40 for teams.
If if these are, let's say,
let's say introduced with a single HTTPS
call, that's fine.
And then and there is a transaction
Yes, they are.
spawning across them. Yeah,
that's fine and still.
Yeah.
Let me remind you that potentially there
might be issues even after changes have
been introduced on TMS database,
for example some serialization buck,
etcetera.
So let's say wrap again the data and send
that response.
Or otentially.
Some,
let's say just the response being closed
over,
let's say some just temporary network
issue.
So in in in that case that change might
be introduced,
but you still won't know it.
So if we decide let's we can also skip
this retry mechanism to save some time
and we always delegate to the user.
That's also perfectly fine by me,
but we just need to agree on that.
Mm.
Let's say we don't do any attempts.
So let's say if TMS is temporary,
unavailable, etcetera,
we do not do anything.
I mean that it tries.
I mean that it tries are fine like
because we have two scenarios like we
mentioned 2 scenarios.
But.
First scenarios we have a for example
serialization issue or some bug in our
code after after the successful executing
the TMS operation.
This means that no matter how much we
retry we will never be able to recover.
Uh, in in uh, the other scenario.
In theory, in theory, yes.
But in practice,
if let's say we retrieve the data that
was on the next retry,
when the then we obviously continue with
the further execution because we already
see that data is present.
And we just keep all the underlying
operations.
But how could we skip some some logic
even if it does?
Because we already observed that the
change is present on TMS side and this is
part of our then put and processing
potential.
Yeah, but I mean,
usually these logical changes,
they're not related to the TMS operation.
The example you gave, the serialization,
we can never skip it, right?
Josef,
let's remove the retry so we can save
some time. Do we agree on that?
Uh, you mean the the automatic retry?
Yeah.
Yes.
But if we remove the automatic retry,
what is left really?
I mean the automatic retry on the TMS
side.
Oh, sure, sure. Uh, I mean, uh, I mean,
yeah, like.
Once we have the change written to the
TMS,
we need to give it at least several goals
on the new dispo database to make sure
that we apply the change.
I mean, it's fine to be honest.
I like whether we have it or not,
wouldn't that much effect effort.
It's it's fine. Like whatever we decide,
I'm fine.
OK.
Alright.
Yeah,
I think the what we what we need to agree
Oh.
on is really the testing and what what's
in the scope of testing.
That's at least the unclear part for me
because any kind of automation testing to
be honest,
we did try automation testing before this
is obviously we will not be able to
delegate this to the QAS.
At all, and furthermore,
the bigger problem is that we don't have
anything set up for such automation tests.
So my concern is that that this will take
Um.
probably significantly more effort than
the actual.
Implementation and like it's if this is
something that it's a must do and we
cannot.
Stay away from, then fine. But otherwise,
yeah, I just want to.
To to make sure that it's visible that
this will take.
Um.
Effort because we don't have anything set
up for such tests.
OK. Um, Yosif,
maybe we can have a smaller call later.
Sure.
So giving Ivaylo back his lunch break and
Christian and then see what what is
really decided and defined so that we can
put that into the back of or.
If we don't have anything yet,
we can safely put into any backlog
because the pressure on my side is
getting backlog work and work items done
because I'm off four days this week.
Otherwise, yeah,
of course it's left on you and Max.
Get something up and running,
but I would really want to have at least
a small package defined until the end of
the day.
Good. So if I know,
what does your day look like?
Are you kind available or is it rather
difficult?
Not anymore.
Not anymore. Good.
What is the what?
What do you need eval for later actually?
Just if we say we need a quick sparing
session again for 15 minutes.
I I updated also the diagram based on our
discussion.
OK, good. Then let's talk later again,
Yosif and you can make your thoughts,
what you understand and what you would
create in terms of PVIS and we can see
what's left open.
OK,
like just a final question I guess to
Ivailo while he we have him like again
about this testing like Ivo,
your opinion is that we cannot skip this
automation tests.
In any way or form.
We need to test this idempotent
processing.
And at some point,
if you encounter the need to do a
rollback,
this also needs to be let and you
introduce this feature.
This also needs to be tested.
Mhm.
Now how it's tested? To be honest,
I'm not sure,
but we need to make sure that we test all
these scenarios that we go through the
Mm.
data demo temp flow.
Mm.
Let's say we we are want to introduce a,
let's say a create but operation,
but then we the the record is existing or
we want to delete something but it
already like it's already deleted.
We need to.
Make sure that all of this is actually
all these cases are tested and not just
Hmm.
let's say be implemented and never let's
say leave them to to go to production and
Yeah.
fingers crossed that this would work.
Yeah, and not.
And how we do that?
Like whether whether we do that with
debugging and then like to to leave
intermediate state,
let's say present in TMS but never
written to new this pool like we can
debug,
we can kill the application while we are
debugging.
That's one of the options, for example,
but we need to do it somehow.
OK, that's fine.
I mean that that I think works if if like
I mean we just need to cover the end goal
of testing and not necessarily.
Go to.
Yeah.
And see similar ways for the similar way
for the database again as well.
So for me it's clear it must be part of.
Like if the database is failing,
we need to simulate this favor the
database.
Mhm.
For the new dispo.
Yeah,
I think we should make the tests part of
the deliverable really.
It also showcases how this complexity and
the client must be aware of this.
Otherwise we don't win anything.
And later on they will say why did you
leave this untested in an automated way?
So we must make art of the deliverable
because they will also pay for it and if
they pay for something,
they want to see what was done with that
budget.
And this will be an automated,
at least the beginning of a small
automated test solution,
which also assures later down the road
that regression don't get introduced and
stuff like that.
So we I I'm of the it should be part of
the deliverables therefore we need.
Real PVIs for that.
And we need to define the preconditions
that must be meant to be even able to
build such tooling.
All right.
Then let's stay in touch and talk later
again.
OK.
I will. I will set something up, Joseph.
Sorry.
I will set a meeting out for us.
Sure.
Thanks everybody. Bye.
Thank you. Bye bye.
Thanks. Bye, bye.
Bye.